---
title: Hatched ground
weight: 1
prev: /docs/design/open_ems/
next: /docs/design/open_ems/taper
---

## Simulation setup
{{< responsive_image key="openems_hatched_debug" >}}
{{< responsive_image key="openems_hatched_3d" >}}

- Various geometries were auto-generated by a Python script which produced image files with different hatch configurations.
- These were then given to gerber2ems to simulate using openEMS.
- A parametric search over the hatch width and gap amount for the optimum search was performed.

## Parameter search
{{< responsive_image key="openems_hatched_s_params" >}}
{{< responsive_image key="openems_hatched_reflectance" >}}

- The configuration with the lowest mean energy loss in our frequency range of interest (0GHz to 40GHz) was chosen.
- This was repeated for a range of different hatch widths, and the optimum out of these was then chosen.

{{< responsive_image key="openems_hatched_s_params_overall" >}}
{{< responsive_image key="openems_hatched_reflectance_overall" >}}

## Discussion
- The average reflectance seemed to have a minimum offset of ```Γ = 0.1``` which was probably due to the bad impedance match when transitioning from the solid ground plane to hatched ground plane in the simulation.
- Highly likely that this would also occur in our flexible PCB since there is also a similar transition at the soldered connection.
- Doesn't simulate dielectric loss or skin effect which is important for predicting how lossy the design is, especially at higher frequencies where these effects are significant.
    - Right now the gerber2ems script uses a perfect conductor as the metal material, however openEMS has [ConductingSheet](https://wiki.openems.de/index.php/Metal_Property.html) which simulates conductivity for lossy conductors.
    - Both dielectric loss and skin effect losses increase at higher frequencies however conductivity is flat across all frequencies, which makes it unsuitable for simulating these lossy effects.
